Welcome back.
How was the exercise?
Hopefully wasn't too difficult.
But if it was and you
weren't able to finish it.
Don't worry we're going to go over the steps and
luckily for you once we do this you'll have a template
that you can use for all your websites because what
we'll build will be something responsive that you
can customize to your own liking but you'll at least
know the best practices after this video of how to do
these common patterns that
we see in a lot of websites.
So let's get started.
The first thing I want to do to
convert this page is well a few things.
Let's go to the HTML page first and let's start off
with the navigation that is the header over here.
A lot of websites have some
sort of a header at the top.
The first thing I want to do is to actually use semantic
HTML and be more descriptive in what are doing.
So in our case instead of div I'm going to use
the nav HTML element and this is something that
we've already talked about and instead of just having
header here I'm going to have a ul class or ul
element that will have a
class name of main-nav.
And in here we can just have li elements that will
have an anchor tag and because we don't really
have we won't have any links for this example we
can obviously do whatever new HTML page that we
want to reference but for now
we can just leave it blank.
So the first one will let's just say be about and we
can copy and paste this for the other items as well.
We'll have let's just say
products we'll say our team.
And then finally we'll have contact.
If I save this and refresh.
There is our navigation doesn't
look very good does it in real life.
Most of the time we see the navigation at the top
and sometimes we also see that there's navigation
links at the top and one all the way to
the right that's pushed to the right edge.
Such as contacts.
So let's try and do that where we have about products
in our team at the top over here and then contacts
all the way to the right at the very edge.
So for that we can create a new class at the very
last item that we want to let's say push and we'll
add the CSS classes.
Now if I go to our let's say this first if I go to
style.css We can create our navigation here now.
We have the main nav class which we've
created and in here we want to use flexbox.
So I'm going to say display flex to activate
flexbox sounds cool when I say activate flexbox.
I want to make sure I remove these little dots in
front of the names so I can just say the list-style
none which will remove
these little pointers.
And let's say that we want the
font size to be let's say 0.7.
em.
If I save and refresh here.
All right things are a little
bit better but still not perfect.
One is we want to remove any margins.
So I'm going to say margin: 0.
If I refresh.
All right we've removed some margins but still not
pretty we want to perhaps add some spaces in between
these things I'm going to just have the li class which
is our navigation items and I'll just say that we
want the padding to be 20px I refresh.
That's a lot better.
OK.
And just to clean things up
let's say that our anchor tags.
We also want them to be able to have a color of
let's just use '#f5f5f6' if I refresh it's nice
and whitish that looks good.
And we don't want those underline so I'm
going to say text-decoration: none. Refresh.
All good now because I want to start
structuring this as an actual web page.
I'm going to go to our zone class and just remove
our padding and margin because we don't really need
it.
Refresh here. Things are going to start looking
ugly but at least we've moved all this whitespace
and then finally our display.
We're no longer going to use inline-block.
We want to start using
our flexbox or CSS grid.
In our case our main nav is going to have flex
display so we don't need our inline-block anymore.
We're going to save and refresh.
And that's a lot better because divs are automatically
blocked our displays for these bottom ones are
now going to just be blocks.
But our top one our navbar has flex now which is great
but you'll notice here we have a bit of a white
gap and this is very common
when you're working with CSS.
Sometimes browsers by default have
some sort of CSS attached to them.
In this case in Google Chrome our body element already
has some predefined CSS classes that are pre-built
by chrome so we can actually remove those
and make sure that our margins are zero.
By saying margin:
auto 0.
And this is something I'll
make sure I spell that right.
This is something that you'll see a lot of and
you'll do a lot of when it comes to just making sure
that the styles are at least
the margins are correct.
When you start off. So if I refresh here. Look at
that! Margins are on and everything just filled
on the page which is great.
The last thing I want to do is to move contacts all
the way up to the right and remember the push class
that we added.
Well that's going to be super easy to do.
All we need to do is to add a push CSS class that
says margin-left to be auto and with this auto if
I refresh contacts goes
all the way to the right.
If I inspect this element.
So I just right click and click on inspect and let's
make this a little bit bigger so we can see if
I hover over li push here.
We see that each li element has its
own box but because we did margin-left
auto, our li element
it's going to get automatically push because it has
this automatic margin that it creates to the very
end.
If I did margin-right for
example and I refresh here
Our margin would now actually be all the way to the
right to fill up the entire width of the viewport.
But let's go back to left.
Let's go back to the left
save and refresh here.
The neat part about this is
that with this margin-left
auto, I can now resize our page and you'll see
that contacts is always going to be to our right.
This is something that you'll see in a lot
of websites and we did that fairly fast.
Not too bad, right?
The last thing I want to fix here is as you'll notice
as we get closer and closer it kind of overlaps
our team
and well now we have this weird
little contacts that overflows.
How can we fix this?
Let's tackle that in the next video.